Let's start with the application.
How to get your foot in the door?
That initial, I don't know, probe into,
maybe I want to start looking around.
Maybe I wanna see what
this company is about.
Maybe I wanna see if they even notice
me if I put in my application.
I've got some tips on that.
The first thing before you even apply,
even before you think about applying,
think, what do you like
about your current job?
Is it, it's a learning environment and
people are friendly?
Is it you solve these incredibly complex
challenges and it's very rewarding?
Is it the free food?
Is it your company has a lot of
notoriety as an engineering culture?
Think about what do you like
about your current job?
And then think,
what do I want in my next job?
That's important.
A lot of times we apply it blindly
to companies just trying to see
where we'll land and
we don't do it with direction.
We don't do with purpose.
We don't think I wanna be at this next
job, but you didn't get any thoughts.
You get hired, you work there for
a year and you're like I am unhappy.
And then you do that again, and
then you do that again, rather than, let's
find a home where you know you can grow
and you can build and you could learn.
And over time you say I'm very satisfied,
I can move up the ladder,
I can build cool things.
I just have a lot of job satisfaction.
Most people don't do that.
Because interviewing is
kind of a crapshoot.
We just hope we get a job somewhere.
But I encourage you when you're applying
for job, do it with intentionality,
do it with a purpose.
Say, I wanna work at this company,
and here's why.
Also what companies have
appealing engineering cultures?
Is it your company?
Is it the companies you
read about in the news?
Are there companies you think are bad,
are there companies you think are good?
Consider that carefully, because
engineering culture is really important,
and we never focus on it.
We focus on getting the job, rather than,
will I be happy this next job?
Does the culture vibe with me?
And I can say for a fact there are
companies that I would not enjoy working
at, big companies, they pay me a lot of
money, but I wouldn't be happy there.
And what's the point of doing any
of this if you're not gonna be
happy doing what you do?